TODO.md, before:



##TODO

badges - https://github.com/davidsiaw/luacppinterface
https://bitdeli.com/
https://gitter.im/

__attribute((unused))__ for tests when disabled globally

make it all 1 big file

use a pool for the allocations because 1k+ allocs before entering main() can be heavy

ability to not run tests at all

prefix all config defines with doctest_config

the CHECK() macro
    OPTIONAL!!! break on failed CHECK() macros in doctest

a message macro

more aggressive gcc/clang warnings! http://meetingcpp.com/tl_files/2014/talks/robust_code.pdf

timing reports of tests, duration restrictions, kill of longer than, etc...

uppercase vs lowercase macros - with a define!

look at catch command line options

defense of macros in testing frameworks: http://accu.org/var/uploads/journals/Overload125.pdf

tests/examples folders separate

profile doctest vs Catch
    compile time
    startup time

error reporting
- MSVC/IDE integration
- xml
- make a compact reporter (for within ide-s - just the file and line number)
- streaming reporters???

signal handling for unix: http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/csignal/signal/

test execution in separate processes
    UNIX - fork()
    process stuff under windows
        maybe call itself? with the range functionality? better not...
        http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms682512(v=vs.85).aspx
        http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms682499(v=vs.85).aspx

CI
    https://svn.boost.org/trac/boost/wiki/TravisCoverals
    travis
        compile/run all examples
        valgrind
            https://github.com/dlundquist/sniproxy/blob/master/.travis.yml
        clang static analysis
        coverity static analysis http://www.coverity.com/
        coverage
            https://github.com/eddyxu/cpp-coveralls
            https://github.com/kylelutz/compute
            https://github.com/apolukhin/variant/blob/travisci/.travis.yml
    msvc
        just compile all the examples
        https://github.com/mkurdej/bft/blob/develop/appveyor.yml
        https://github.com/mapbox/variant/blob/master/appveyor.yml
        https://github.com/cppformat/cppformat/blob/master/appveyor.yml

THINK OF IN THE LONG TERM

better command line names (and shorter?)

sorting the test order (by file, by test suite, or both, ASC/DESC...)

trim "\"" from test/fixture/testsuite names?

keep the 2 headers (main and implementation)?

- depends only on profiling different schemas
    
hierarchical test suites? using a stack for the pushed states

error checking of parameters (if the range is valid (first <= last), etc)

ability to transfer/copy registered functions from one shared object to another so they are put in one set and duplicates are filtered

to make it C compatible:

- make a DOCTEST_C_INTERFACE macro

- wrap all casts

- change c standard library includes

- use the struct keyword everywhere

- remove counter definitions from for loops

- remove exception catching

- migrate to pointers from references

- remove the fixture macro

- the CHECK macro... will need CHECK_EQUAL and all that bullshit because it cannot be implemented in plain C...

- remove namespaces (wrap in a macro every doctest function declaration/definition/call for a "doctest_" prefix)

documentation

- whats the library's main purpose

- warning free even with the most aggressive options for all 3 major compilers

- mocking features are not necessary because they are orthogonal to testing and a different third party library may be used for that (google
 mock)
- document what has been taken from Catch

- document how to use spaces for filters in the comma separated list (using "")

- tests are ran serially

- document all the options

- library is easily breakable if __counter__ is not defined (a test in a header and a test in a cpp on the same line as the header) - will
 result in compilation error

Commit message:

- moved to 1 file
- other changes...

TODO.md, after:

##TODO

ability to not run tests at all

use a pool for the allocations because 1k+ allocs before entering main() can be heavy

move to RAII instead of atexit() bullshit (and maybe stop this void* BS)





__attribute((unused))__ for tests when disabled globally





the CHECK() macro
    OPTIONAL!!! break on failed CHECK() macros in doctest

a message macro

more aggressive gcc/clang warnings! http://meetingcpp.com/tl_files/2014/talks/robust_code.pdf

timing reports of tests, duration restrictions, kill of longer than, etc...

look at catch command line options

defense of macros in testing frameworks: http://accu.org/var/uploads/journals/Overload125.pdf

tests/examples folders separate

profile doctest vs Catch
    compile time
    startup time

error reporting
- MSVC/IDE integration
- xml
- make a compact reporter (for within ide-s - just the file and line number)
- streaming reporters???

signal handling for unix: http://www.cplusplus.com/reference/csignal/signal/

test execution in separate processes
    UNIX - fork()
    process stuff under windows
        maybe call itself? with the range functionality? better not...
        http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms682512(v=vs.85).aspx
        http://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/windows/desktop/ms682499(v=vs.85).aspx

CI
    https://svn.boost.org/trac/boost/wiki/TravisCoverals
    travis
        compile/run all examples
        valgrind
            https://github.com/dlundquist/sniproxy/blob/master/.travis.yml
        clang static analysis
        coverity static analysis http://www.coverity.com/
        coverage
            https://github.com/eddyxu/cpp-coveralls
            https://github.com/kylelutz/compute
            https://github.com/apolukhin/variant/blob/travisci/.travis.yml
    msvc
        just compile all the examples
        https://github.com/mkurdej/bft/blob/develop/appveyor.yml
        https://github.com/mapbox/variant/blob/master/appveyor.yml
        https://github.com/cppformat/cppformat/blob/master/appveyor.yml

badges - https://github.com/davidsiaw/luacppinterface
https://bitdeli.com/
https://gitter.im/

THINK OF IN THE LONG TERM

think about removing the custom exception catcher/test runner function (testExecutionWrapper)

sorting the test order (by file, by test suite, or both, ASC/DESC...)

trim "\"" from test/fixture/testsuite names?

- depends only on profiling different schemas
    
hierarchical test suites? using a stack for the pushed states

error checking of parameters (if the range is valid (first <= last), etc)

ability to transfer/copy registered functions from one shared object to another so they are put in one set and duplicates are filtered

to make it C compatible:

- make a DOCTEST_C_INTERFACE macro

- wrap all casts

- change c standard library includes

- use the struct keyword everywhere

- remove counter definitions from for loops

- remove exception catching

- migrate to pointers from references

- remove the fixture macro

- the CHECK macro... will need CHECK_EQUAL and all that bullshit because it cannot be implemented in plain C...

- remove namespaces (wrap in a macro every doctest function declaration/definition/call for a "doctest_" prefix)

documentation

- whats the library's main purpose

- warning free even with the most aggressive options for all 3 major compilers

- mocking features are not necessary because they are orthogonal to testing and a different third party library may be used for that (google
 mock)
 
- document what has been taken from Catch

- document how to use spaces for filters in the comma separated list (using "")

- tests are ran serially

- document all the options

- library is easily breakable if __counter__ is not defined (a test in a header and a test in a cpp on the same line as the header) - will
 result in compilation error
