scripts/random_dev_notes.md, before:


// doctest_0_pre_cpp11
 9.38 |   12.89 | ===> 0.0176 sec
15.02 |   19.78 | ===> 0.0238 sec

// doctest_1_pre_fwd_to_impl
 9.70 |   13.03 | ===> 0.0166 sec
15.40 |   20.15 | ===> 0.0238 sec

// doctest_2_after_fwd_to_impl
 9.91 |   12.60 | ===> 0.0135 sec
15.48 |   19.08 | ===> 0.0180 sec

// doctest_3_after_struct_madness
 9.35 |   11.70 | ===> 0.0118
14.81 |   18.55 | ===> 0.0187


https://i.stack.imgur.com/b2VBV.png



reporters issue: 138
c++11 issue: 137


the current reporter interface
    - can be used for listening for events
    - multiple reporters can be used
    - custom reporters can be written
    - register and choose reporters
    - list all reporters
todo:
    - output to file (or just not stdout)
    - xml output
    - xUnit reporter
    - compact reporter
    - progress reporter
    - options
        - absolutely no output on success
        - summary only

https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_67_0/libs/test/doc/html/index.html



- remove C++98 support
    - remove the config identifiers for C++11 features
    - use variadic templates where appropriate
    - update type lists to C++11
    - move initialization of fields from initializer lists to class bodies
    - for loops
    - lambdas
    - auto
    - enum class



examples

thread sanitizer tests

coverage

documentation... :(
    also faq

profit :D


further improvement of compile and link times - moved the body of absolutely every non-templated function out of the interface part of the header and into the implementation part
    TODO: think about POD structures from fwd

ask in the reddit thread what from the roadmap they would like to see next



OMG!!! THIS!!!
https://github.com/onqtam/doctest/issues/114
isRunningInTest()



header with extensions
    - demangling
    - stringification of types from std
    - esoteric reporters



user command line options...?

https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/commit/de36b2ada6e4593a9a32c4c86cd47d4bc002b148

rethink static code analisys suppressions - users shouldn't have to use the same flags for code which uses doctest macros/types

try to forward declare std::string and specialize the string maker for it or something like that

https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/issues/980
https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/commit/00af677577973758b3b35e1c94ab4142c45c3f67
https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/commit/11f716f28d6621d1e54cf13374f8b5dd1a7489f5
https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/commit/22ac9d2184b3868cccfd635eb631d0eee1529121
https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/commit/0b1f1b10030942c38ca8c1b95140b0c65efc903e

== when making a new release:

news.ycombinator.com
isocpp.org
reddit.com/r/cpp
reddit.com/r/programming
reddit.com/r/gamedev
reddit.com/r/cplusplus
https://www.linkedin.com/groups/86782/profile
twitter

on big releases: update benchmarks, number of CI builds, differences with Catch, docs, etc.

also check if anything should be added here:
https://github.com/martinmoene/catch-lest-other-comparison

== how to deal with pull requests for the main branch instead of the dev branch
- http://stackoverflow.com/questions/9135913/merge-pull-request-to-a-different-branch-than-default-in-github
- git fetch origin pull/ID/head:BRANCHNAME         << BRANCHNAME should be a new local branch! and then rebase it

== other
- operator<< trouble
    - see how Catch is implementing their IsStreamInsertable trait for C++11
    - https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/issues/757
    - https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/issues/872
    - https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/pull/877
    - https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/issues/880
- toString trouble - https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/issues/741
- https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/commit/33ed1773f40b406dbf3b7201bf52694bd86b1503

- I suspect -Wsign-compare is not being silenced by the pragmas...
  see this build - https://travis-ci.org/onqtam/game/jobs/196987454
  check_eq(numDigits(0), 1);     numDigits returns uint32

Commit message:

moved implementation details into an anonymous namespace (still inside of doctest but outside of detail - reason for this: not to have 3 namespaces nested into each other, downside: had to use detail in doctest (for convenience) - hope it doesn't break anywhere...)

scripts/random_dev_notes.md, after:


// doctest_0_pre_cpp11
 9.38 |   12.89 | ===> 0.0176 sec
15.02 |   19.78 | ===> 0.0238 sec

// doctest_1_pre_fwd_to_impl
 9.70 |   13.03 | ===> 0.0166 sec
15.40 |   20.15 | ===> 0.0238 sec

// doctest_2_after_fwd_to_impl
 9.91 |   12.60 | ===> 0.0135 sec
15.48 |   19.08 | ===> 0.0180 sec

// doctest_3_after_struct_madness
 9.35 |   11.70 | ===> 0.0118
14.81 |   18.55 | ===> 0.0187


https://i.stack.imgur.com/b2VBV.png



reporters issue: 138
c++11 issue: 137


the current reporter interface
    - can be used for listening for events
    - multiple reporters can be used
    - custom reporters can be written
    - register and choose reporters
    - list all reporters
todo:
    - output to file (or just not stdout)
    - xml output
    - xUnit reporter
    - compact reporter
    - progress reporter
    - options
        - absolutely no output on success
        - summary only

https://www.boost.org/doc/libs/1_67_0/libs/test/doc/html/index.html



- remove C++98 support
    - remove the config identifiers for C++11 features
    - use variadic templates where appropriate
    - update type lists to C++11
    - move initialization of fields from initializer lists to class bodies
    - for loops
    - lambdas
    - auto
    - enum class



examples

thread sanitizer tests

coverage

documentation... :(
    also faq

profit :D


further improvement of compile and link times - moved the body of absolutely every non-templated function out of the interface part of the header and into the implementation part (including implicitly generated special member functions!) (also using anonymous namespaces for most of the test runner)

ask in the reddit thread what from the roadmap they would like to see next



OMG!!! THIS!!!
https://github.com/onqtam/doctest/issues/114
isRunningInTest()



header with extensions
    - demangling
    - stringification of types from std
    - esoteric reporters



user command line options...?

https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/commit/de36b2ada6e4593a9a32c4c86cd47d4bc002b148

rethink static code analisys suppressions - users shouldn't have to use the same flags for code which uses doctest macros/types

try to forward declare std::string and specialize the string maker for it or something like that

https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/issues/980
https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/commit/00af677577973758b3b35e1c94ab4142c45c3f67
https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/commit/11f716f28d6621d1e54cf13374f8b5dd1a7489f5
https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/commit/22ac9d2184b3868cccfd635eb631d0eee1529121
https://github.com/catchorg/Catch2/commit/0b1f1b10030942c38ca8c1b95140b0c65efc903e

== when making a new release:

news.ycombinator.com
isocpp.org
reddit.com/r/cpp
reddit.com/r/programming
reddit.com/r/gamedev
reddit.com/r/cplusplus
https://www.linkedin.com/groups/86782/profile
twitter

on big releases: update benchmarks, number of CI builds, differences with Catch, docs, etc.

also check if anything should be added here:
https://github.com/martinmoene/catch-lest-other-comparison

== how to deal with pull requests for the main branch instead of the dev branch
- http://stackoverflow.com/questions/9135913/merge-pull-request-to-a-different-branch-than-default-in-github
- git fetch origin pull/ID/head:BRANCHNAME         << BRANCHNAME should be a new local branch! and then rebase it

== other
- operator<< trouble
    - see how Catch is implementing their IsStreamInsertable trait for C++11
    - https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/issues/757
    - https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/issues/872
    - https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/pull/877
    - https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/issues/880
- toString trouble - https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/issues/741
- https://github.com/philsquared/Catch/commit/33ed1773f40b406dbf3b7201bf52694bd86b1503

- I suspect -Wsign-compare is not being silenced by the pragmas...
  see this build - https://travis-ci.org/onqtam/game/jobs/196987454
  check_eq(numDigits(0), 1);     numDigits returns uint32
