doc/markdown/readme.md, before:

Reference
=======

- [Features and design goals](features.md) - the complete list of features
- [Roadmap](roadmap.md) - upcoming features
- [Tutorial](tutorial.md) - make sure you have read it before the other parts of the documentation
- [Benchmarks](benchmarks.md) - compile time supremacy
- [Contributing](contributing.md)
- [Examples](../../examples)

-------------

- [Assertion macros](assertions.md)
- [Test cases, subcases and test fixtures](testcases.md)
- [Command line](commandline.md)
- [Configuration](configuration.md)
- [String conversions](stringification.md)
- [```main()``` entry point and dealing with shared objects](main.md)
- [FAQ](faq.md)

Support the development of the project with donations! There is a list of planned features which are all important and big - see the [**roadmap**](roadmap.md). I took a break from working in the industry to make open source software so every cent is a big deal.

[![Pledgie](https://pledgie.com/campaigns/31280.png)](https://pledgie.com/campaigns/31280)
[![Patreon](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8225057/5990484/70413560-a9ab-11e4-8942-1a63607c0b00.png)](http://www.patreon.com/onqtam)
[![PayPal](https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=3K423Q6TK48BN)

Commit message:

Added example how to remove doctest options from the command line for the program after the tests run - fixes #20

doc/markdown/readme.md, after:

Reference
=======

- [Features and design goals](features.md) - the complete list of features
- [Roadmap](roadmap.md) - upcoming features
- [Tutorial](tutorial.md) - make sure you have read it before the other parts of the documentation
- [Benchmarks](benchmarks.md) - compile time supremacy
- [Contributing](contributing.md)
- [Examples](../../examples)

-------------

- [Assertion macros](assertions.md)
- [Test cases, subcases and test fixtures](testcases.md)
- [Command line](commandline.md)
- [Configuration](configuration.md)
- [String conversions](stringification.md)
- [```main()``` entry point and dealing with shared objects](main.md)
- [FAQ](faq.md)

Support the development of the project with donations! There is a list of planned features which are all important and big - see the [**roadmap**](roadmap.md). I took a break from working in the industry to make open source software so every cent is a big deal.

If you work for a company using doctest or have the means to do so, please consider financial support.

[![Pledgie](https://pledgie.com/campaigns/31280.png)](https://pledgie.com/campaigns/31280)
[![Patreon](https://cloud.githubusercontent.com/assets/8225057/5990484/70413560-a9ab-11e4-8942-1a63607c0b00.png)](http://www.patreon.com/onqtam)
[![PayPal](https://www.paypalobjects.com/en_US/i/btn/btn_donate_LG.gif)](https://www.paypal.com/cgi-bin/webscr?cmd=_s-xclick&hosted_button_id=3K423Q6TK48BN)
